alright guys I'm ready to finally just
sit down with you and chat about first
week for reals I went out got the matcha
oh my god that is so gross I thought I
am going to get a matcha for Gary and I
because I've run out at home so now my
bank account a city Hicks I'm spending
like $15 the day today's a really busy
day I leave for Pittsburgh for my
parents recently relocated to and later
today in this video I'm gonna update you
on how my first week wins and the
workout that I did this morning so I'm
going to grab this mug job and then
we'll chat in a bit about what I've
learned this first week how much weight
I've lost and all that good his workout
canceled today because he's a tennis
coach okay so I wanted to just sit down
and have a quick chat with you guys and
tell you what my first reactions from
the first week of my fitness challenge
were how I have done the results what
made it hard like what made it easy all
of the kind of things observations so
last week I completed all my workouts
and I hit my macros really really well
what I discovered off the bat biggest
thing was that I had estimated to Lizzie
my coach Fresa fuerte check her out if
you haven't I we had estimated when I
come to a food journal to check where my
metabolism was currently at that I was
probably eating somewhere around 1750
calories a day and when I started in my
macros and maintenance and as the week
was going through I could feel my body
was in a deficit so the bad news on this
was that
miscalculated by maintenance calories
which is very common we tend to
underreport over eating the good news to
this is that it means my metabolism was
a heck of a lot faster than I thought I
was probably averaging 2,000 a day and
maintaining at 120 pounds so and 17.8%
fighting fat so that was cool to see
that my metabolism was a lot faster than
I estimated but then I did end up being
in a deficit this week and I didn't want
to be we didn't want to be so I did end
up losing some weight which we talked
about and it also made the macros a
little bit more challenging because
suddenly if you're dieting which is you
know you don't want to be a to see the
deficit leads to you know cravings
hunger binge a literally slows your
metabolism down so it's not really the
goal here um but that being said some
good things came out of it figured out
that I was in fact eating way more
calories than 70 today morning good
morning guys just woke up Gary and I
accidentally slept in a bit and I'm
going to go to the gym downstairs and
get a little bit of a body and chest
workout in it's ready into that tubercle
on the outside but so I'm eating my
pre-workout meal
I used to mostly train fasted not
because it does anything significant you
don't need to do fasted workouts in
order to get great results I just used
to do them because I wasn't as hungry in
the morning but now that I'm really
trying to be more aggressive with
building muscle really making sure that
I have a solid solid high carb high
protein meal in the morning right before
my workout and then I also have another
a really high carb high protein meal
right after to really just pad the carbs
around the workout so I can make the
most my body can make the most out of my
blood sugar and put it towards repairing
the muscle tissues instead of you know
if you eat a lot of sugar during other
times of the day and you don't have
anywhere to store it because our storage
our fats advisor I said this is why I
don't talk about science before 10 a.m.
our energy stores hello April our energy
stores are not that big so if you eat a
ton of carbs and carbs are good you need
them at every meal so not hating on
carbs but if you eat a really high
amount like when you're not active they
might not necessarily go to use and then
they'll just get stored as fat cells so
I'm trying to make the most out of my
car hydrates and I have to 0% by hey
ogre be ogre I have some oats and honey
and granola that's like the carbs banana
is the carbs chia seeds mostly for fiber
but they have fat protein and carbs in
them the yogurt isn't the protein for
the most part so it's about 30 grams of
protein maybe like 8 grams of fat and
roughly 60 grams of carbs so that's a
lot so the first few days were really
hard just for that reason I felt you
know I've done this a lot so I felt my
body starting to like tip into that
deficit while working out really hard so
what I did in response instead of
changing the macros because I wanted to
have some really good data for Lizzie to
look at we I just decided to cut my
cardio down so I was doing probably 80
minutes ish total not everyday units to
role of cardio when you know weekly on
average and that would be just walking
like incline walks so I just tape it up
down to about 60 minutes so that really
only looked like it was two 20 minute
walks and then a 15 minute walk roughly
that's what I did pretty much yeah and
it was very you know I just hop on the
treadmill after I workout it's really no
big deal and just get some extra steps
and it's not cardio that's of a high
intensity pounding the body that's like
very stressful and it's going to have a
huge hit on my appetite hormones which
is as petite women that's what we want
to avoid cardio can be really
detrimental for petite women because if
we do too much in general our body is
going to react by tipping our hormones
towards being more hungry it messes with
our left and our growl
which is our appetite hormones our
satiation so I just shaved a couple of
minutes off there and that helped adjust
sort of how I was feeling in terms of
hunger and something new that I've
incorporated into my training thanks to
Lizzie is tempo training so this is
pausing at certain moments in an
exercise to have a longer period of
what's known as time under tension and
time under tension is the amount of time
and length of time that you're you're
putting your muscle under stress and
that's going to help it get stronger
over time so for example eccentric sore
lowering push-ups would be an example so
when you start in the push-up plank and
you slowly lower down to below 3 press
back up
there's no pause at the bottom or the
top that's an example of tempo training
so as the muscle stretches and lengthens
as you're going into the push-up you're
going slower and the time under tension
so the time that you're working is
longer rather than just doing one quick
pushup
that's less work done overall if you're
doing really fast push-ups versus really
going slow and having that time that the
muscle is working being longer than
usual so we've incorporated some time
under tension and tempo training and
pretty much a lot of the lifts most of
the accessory lifts and I really felt
that in this first week the first few
days I was incredibly sore and with in
that vein I know that you guys have
asked me a bunch of times is soreness
good - soreness mean that the programs
working and no being sore has nothing to
do with losing weight or the program
being really good typically we get sore
when we impose demands on our body that
it's not familiar with so that could be
a change in intensity in your program it
could be doing a completely new form of
exercise that you haven't done even if
you're in an incredible shape if you
have a new program or you change your
program you will probably get some
soreness and it's just your body
experiencing new motions and movements
that it's not used to and responding
with this stress response where it's
just healing the muscle so I don't even
do the program being really good or
anything like that it's literally just
oh my program and now I'm a little bit
more sore than normal so that's been
really cool I'm really excited about
introducing these tempos into my
training to kind of bring my strength to
the next level wait let's talk about my
results from this week I'm really
excited I'm bringing up the run throw up
right now I'll show you guys where I'm
at since I might before video with you
guys I'm down by 2.6 pounds so I went
from one hundred and twenty two point
four two hundred and nineteen point
eight haven't been under one one twenty
pounds in a while did we want this
happen no did it happen yeah it was a
pretty fast rate another thing that can
contribute to this is I did change my
eating a little bit in terms of the
types of foods I was eating I slightly
lower fat in a much higher carbs kept
the protein high as I always do and also
like I said in the first video I'm
playing around with nutrient timing so
padding the carbs around when I can
utilize them the most in my workouts
before and after throughout the day the
carbs become lower in glycemic index so
less sugary carbs think fibrous
vegetables and legumes so that could
have also affected my weight as well I'm
also probably holding a little bit less
water like water weight so I would never
really assume that all 2.6 of those
balances purely fat there's also a
little bit of muscle loss that came into
play most likely and a little bit of
water loss in terms of my body fat
percentage it went down point four so
that's really cool went from seventeen
point eight to seventeen point four and
then in terms of my muscle mass I
actually increased my muscle mass
despite being in a deficit on accident
so I went from forty seven point nine
percent to forty eight point one so is a
point to increase modest increase but
it's great to see that I was still able
to build muscle while losing fat at the
same time and have a really strong week
as far as next steps basically Lizzie
and I decided we had to check in this
morning and he had a little face time
I'm gonna state these macro just to see
if it levels out the next three days if
it continues to be like I lose a full
pound we're gonna increase the the
macros
quite a bit just to slow down the rate
of fat loss you want slow fat loss you
this stuff takes time you can't do it in
a week you can't do it in four weeks you
do need to slow down the process because
your metabolism is going to adjust
better and then you'll be able to hold
on to your results for longer so we're
definitely just looking at the data as
well as how I feel and kind of using all
these metrics to make some really good
decisions about how to move forward so
my biggest takeaway from this week for
me is that so for the last year I've I
told you guys I was intuitive eating I
kind of ate whatever I want
I would eat late at night I would snack
I would just sort of do what I wanted
and while that was fun every morning
that I woke up I felt a little bloated
like I would just kind of not feel lean
or like I just didn't feel my best and
doing the within the first few days of
this challenge I felt so strong and so
lean and empowered again and so I just
want to share with you guys that feeling
amazing is really only a day away it's
never that far but it does require
changing something in your lifestyle
right now to get there and it's it's
crazy to think back on all the days that
I just kept letting myself feel not my
best every morning because it was in my
mind I had built it up to be too hard to
to change while I was working on my
business and doing all
other things but it was a really really
valuable lesson for me to remember that
feeling amazing is literally only ever a
couple days or one day away you can
change really small things and kind of
see a really big result and feel really
good and feel really invigorated and one
of the most motivating things where
people kind of let's this fire increase
its momentum it also builds something
that I call self-efficacy so if you can
see that you're capable of doing
something it's easier to do it a second
time third time for a timepiece so it
was really cool to start this snowball
again and see that like I can feel
really good within 24 hours if I just
you know change a few things and really
commit and that's enough to get the
snowball rolling and then the rest that
we got easier and easier that being said
it was still a difficult week I had to
track macros again so I had to carve out
time for that I had to meal prep which I
already was doing but I had to be more
diligent about it I really focused on
prioritizing my sleep and overall I just
felt really happy I felt really good to
have this structure and this routine
having like a really long career in
athletics I'm really used to teen and
having structure so it sort of just it
feels more natural to me so if you guys
are starting something I you know you
might not want to started now over the
holidays because now is a crazy time but
maybe in the new year this could be some
some good advice for you guys to just
remember that starting is the hardest
part and day later you'll be so happy
you started and you'll be in a
completely different place and mentally
than you were the day before oh okay I
also wanted to talk about balance so I
did go to a holiday party on Saturday
and I did watch Gary compete in a tennis
tournament the night before and both
times I was able to enjoy I had a nice
cold beer on Friday and watching Gary
play tennis I don't
drink beer but he would just was really
good and it was fine I woke up the next
day and still losing weight and at the
holiday party I made sure I ate a really
solid PFF meal before I went so that I
wouldn't crave all the treats and
everything I had no cravings at all no
desire to really indulge if I did I
would have had it I had a drink while I
was there I socialized it was really fun
I didn't feel like I was sacrificing
anything and throughout the week I also
made sure that I had dessert because the
thing that you really need to set
yourself up for success when you're
eating healthy is not restricting
yourself you can set macro goals and
incorporate treats and desserts
into them and that's so important for
your long-term success when we try to
cut everything out that's when the
problems start to happen that's when we
start labeling foods as good and bad
that's when we start craving these
sugars and it's food so much so I made
sure I had I had some biscotti as the
Gary brought home I had some cookies we
bought I had some macaroons and so I
didn't cut sugar 100% out and I wouldn't
recommend that you do that if you eat
85% full unprocessed foods for the rest
of your diet and then you have some
treats this is how you this is not gonna
ruin your diet at Raver
you should diet but your nutrition this
is going to improve it because you're
going to have that that treat that's
gonna keep you motivated and you're not
gonna feel deprived and that's so so so
important I cannot emphasize it enough
if you want to be able to go to holiday
parties and you want to be able to enjoy
alcohol and treats you totally can you
can just kind of build them into your
macronutrients as a part of what you're
trying to eat for the day and my biggest
tip for this is plan where you're gonna
eat roughly the night before so this
saves my life this has always been
something I do when I track macros I
just go ahead and the night before I
start to make meals that fit your
macronutrients so that when you wake up
in the morning you're not scrambling to
try to make all these meals and make the
numbers work just do it the night before
or load it up and your app you can
change it the next day but that will
allow you to budget for things like
holiday parties or a drink at night or
whatever so that was really cool this
was probably the first
where you know I was able to like really
enjoy dessert and I had some alcohol and
socialized and I felt really good really
confident if anything that's just a
really good indicator of how the next 12
weeks or 11 weeks will go so I hope this
was helpful for you guys let me know
what else you want to see what you want
to hear about as you guys know I'm doing
a blog update every week as well and
monthly I'll be taking measurements
there will be different metrics as we go
breaking down the data and I want to
make this as helpful and educational for
you guys as possible so let me know what
you want to see in the comments other
than that I hope you guys have a great
and wonderful Monday and I hope you're
having a great holiday season and
grating when it comes I know
tell them to LIKE and subscribe make
sure you like subscribe and make sure
you like subscribe and have a great day
make sure you like subscribe and follow
us on Instagram and women follow
smolitics for more content tailored to
petite women
[Music]